- So we just saw what it was like to establish
a connection and start subscribing to the topics
that we care about in our chat app client.
Now for the most exciting part, sending messages.
For this exercise, we're gonna share exactly
what code you need to have to make sure
that messages are sent to the server,
and then that the server can then broadcast
those messages back to all of the chat participants.
So let's take a look at some JavaScript.
Again for this exercise, we're gonna open up
our our app.js file, which is located in our
src/main/resources tree in the static subdirectory.
I'm gonna double click on the editor
so we can maximize, get a little more space,
and much like our last subscription for topic
guest names, the code here is pretty much
the same, the only difference being a different topic name.
So for our guests to chat with each other,
we've set up a topic called guestchats.
And I already have a message ready to go
to implement what should happen when guests
chat with each other.
So let's look at that showMessage function.
Before we can show a message though, we have to send it.
So our client has to call the send function.
We have to send to the application's end point.
The controller has been configured to listen
for that messages on this particular end point,
and you should remember that we set these all up
in our server-side code already.
So the end point needs to be app/guestchat.
Once I type that, this message can now be sent
and handled by the correct controller.
What happens when a message comes back
is the function showMessage gets called.
Again, similar things are happening in here
as we saw in the previous exercise.
We'll write manipulate what's in the HTML,
we add a table row to then broadcast out
the message on the UI.
We make sure that the user interface gets updated
instantaneously for all connected clients.
So let's run that and see what it looks like in a browser.
Once again, I wanna mimic two users having a conversation.
So I have two browser windows open.
In one, I'm gonna join as Shonna.
In another window, I'll join as Susan.
Now that we've both joined, we can start chatting
with each other.
So Shonna is just gonna say hello to Susan.
And as you can see, both browser windows
were instantly updated.
Now, just for completeness, let's have Susan
say hello back.
We don't want her to be rude.
And there we go.
We've just implemented how to make sure
that messages get sent and get broadcast back
to all connected clients.
So we finally just saw what it took to send
messages back and forth to the server
and broadcast to all chat clients.
So let's do a quick review of what we just accomplished.
We just showed what it takes to set up
a different topic so that chat messages can go
back and forth between clients and the server.
Then we brought up two browsers and emulated
two users chatting.
We were able to see how the user interface
was instantly updated each time one user
sent a message to another.
But we still can't tell when someone is typing a response.
That's what we all wanna see in real-time apps, right?
So let's get ready to do our next exercise
where we'll show you just that.